So now that we learned the basics about how we can work with Javascript and CSS, I want to prepare
our project to become real responsive by adding a side navigation, essentially a side navigation bar that
should open when we click a to be added button here in our main toolbar at the top that should open
whenever we click this button to allow us to navigate to packages, customers and so on from there. Because
later in the course, in the next module actually, we'll start turning our page into a responsive web page,
so that it looks good on mobile devices too.
Right now, if we decrease the size, it starts to look ugly and we definitely need to change that.
Therefore having such a side navigation is already a great first step and that's why we'll add it now.
For this, again you'll find some code attached to this video,
the first code snippet is HTML code which you should add below your main nav header here in your index.html
file in the root project folder,
so between the closing of header and in front of the main section, add the HTML code you find attached
to this video,
this nav element.
Now here, you actually see we got a nav HTML element with a bunch of classes on the nested elements
and then our links to packages, customers and start hosting
which you don't really have yet but which we'll add soon. You also need some CSS code for this
to work and you'll find that code attached to this video too,
that should be added to shared.css file, add it anywhere in that file, I'll add it below my other
CSS code, my other navigation code, excuse me, in front of the buttons though.
Here are a bunch of mobile nav CSS classes which essentially give this mobile navigation a nice look,
you see here we also use just fixed, set index with height of 100vh to ensure that it always takes the
full page height without the 100% cascading trick
and yes essentially that's it.
Now what do we also need to do for that to work correctly is we need to add some selectors to our other
class selectors we got in the shared.css file,
let's start with the main nav item anchor tag selector here.
Now this link style also should be applied to our .mobile-nav__item
anchor tag so that the links in our mobile navigation also look good.
Next up, we got our CTA style here,
our call to action button.
Here I'll also add another style with a comma
separated again,
mobile-nav__item--cta anchor tag should also receive that style and now last but
not least, here our main nav CTA hovered active styles,
here I'll also add mobile-nav__item--cta anchor hover and then the
same just for the active style, like this.
With that if we save all of that and we reload,
we don't actually see anything because if we go back to the shared file,
you will see that the mobile nav by default has a display of none. Let's remove that temporarily and
let's reload
and this is what it will look like,
not super pretty because it's way too big,
it will look good on smaller devices later.
This is what we'll actually work on though, we'll change the styling then to ensure that it looks good,
we want to ensure that on small devices, like maybe here this iPhone, it looks nice. It doesn't right now,
we'll work on this in the next module,
we can already work on showing this upon the click of a button though.
So let's add display none again and let's add a button which allows us to show that side navigation
when we click on it as a next step.
Now that button which I want to add also is added by adding some HTML code which you find attached to
this video and you should add that code in the main navigation now,
here right in front of our uHost brand inside the div but outside of the anchor tag, next to the
anchor tag, this button code should be added.
If you reload, you should see this strange button,
now it'll also need some styling to look good and that styling can also be found attached to this video.
Now you can add it anywhere you want, since it is placed next to the brand,
I will also add the styling next to the brand,
maybe here
and it should be this toggle button class
and then the two other toggle button related classes.
Now what is this doing here?
This is just creating a button which has a fixed width with a background which should be transparent,
no padding top and bottom but aligning in the middle to its neighbor elements and here,
I also want to have a width 100% for the bars inside the button. If you inspect the HTML code again,
you see we can get three spans inside of the button which have this toggle button bar class.
Now this class is targeted with this selector
and there, we give them the width of the button, a height, then a background color of black and then also
a margin to the top and bottom, so that the bars are separated from each other,
they also are display block.
If we save that and we reload, we get this hamburger menu icon here.
Now this looks strange here for the single reason that we guy gave this button a width of 3rem but for
our navigation here where we calculate its width, we're deducting,
well not enough, this anyways is code that definitely needs to improve and we will improve it.
For now, let's simply increase that, now 3rem would be 48 pixels by default,
so let's change this to 122 pixels and reload,
now it's back inline and yes this is bad code,
we will improve this.
Now one thing I also need to improve is I need to add vertical align
middle to the main header brand element here. With that if we reload,
this is now centered in the middle next to the button.
Now this button here should be clickable and when we
click it, that side navigation should open. With it all prepared
now, let's work on that opening part for which we will use Javascript in the next lecture.